# Text-to-video-synthesis
Children often find it hard to read lengthy texts and to extract the important information, not to mention understanding the story or retaining interest. Nevertheless, visual storytelling has been proven to not only improve understanding but to also make learning more fun for children. In this regard we will propose an AI system that converts written narratives into animated videos for children. The system will combine optical character recognition (OCR), AI-generated images, and AI-generated voiceovers to deliver a delightful storytelling experience. The system will perform OCR on elements of the text utilizing industry leading image, using Tesseract OCR. Once OCR has done its job, the text then gets structured into scenes. The system uses a combined approach using spacy, Bert and LDA to segment the scenes of the story. Each scene is illustrated from text that is child and animation appropriate using Gemini and creating cartoon-like images that meet the appropriate age. AI readings such as gTTS will utilize the text converted to audio (TTS). The key to creating a video is then to stitch together all of the images and reading delivered from a crowd of AI tools such as MoviePy. Finally, the AI provides relevant visuals and narration sequencing at the right speeds. In summary, the system enhances how children interact with stories by converting written narratives to visual video. Future work would include enabling multi-language support, enabling characters to be personalized by children for an imaginative experience.
